DOCS - Configurability of Serverless (#179)
kyma-project/serverless-manager: docs/user/00-20-configure-serverless.md

# Overview

Serverless module has its own operator (`serverless-operator`). It watches `Serverless` Custom Resource and re-configure (reconcile) serverless workloads.

Serverless CR becomes the API to configure serverless module. Use it to do the following:
 - enable/disable internal docker registry
 - configure external docker registry 
 - override endpoint for traces collected by serverless functions
 - override endpoint for eventing

Default configuration of serverless module looks as follows:

> ```yaml

Author: done

apiVersion: operator.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
kind: Serverless
  name: serverless-sample
spec:
  dockerRegistry:
    enableInternal: true
```

## Configure Docker Registry

By default, Serverless uses PersistentVolume (PV) as the internal registry to store Docker images for Functions. The default storage size of a single volume is 20 GB. This internal registry is suitable for local development.

If you use Serverless for production purposes, it is recommended that you use an external registry, such as Docker Hub, Google Container Registry (GCR), or Azure Container Registry (ACR).

If you want serverless to use external docker registry, create a secret in `kyma-system` Namespace. Such a Secret must contain required data (**username**, **password**, **serverAddress**, and **registryAddress**):

> ```bash

Reviewer: Please add three spaces for the command (line 31)

Author: done

kubectl create secret -n kyma-system generic my-registry-config --from-literal=username={your-docker-reg-username} --from-literal=password={your-docker-reg-password} --from-literal=serverAddress={your-docker-reg-server-url}  --from-literal=registryAddress={your-docker-reg-registry-url}
```

>**TIP:** In case of DockerHub, usually the Docker registry address is the same as the account name.

Example:

> ```bash

Reviewer: see my previous comment

Author: done

> kubectl create secret -n kyma-system generic my-registry-config --from-literal=username=kyma-rocks --from-literal=password=admin123 --from-literal=serverAddress=https://index.docker.io/v1/  --from-literal=registryAddress=kyma-rocks

Reviewer 2: Is this important how type of secret we use? I see that in doc https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/03-tutorials/00-serverless/svls-08-switch-to-external-registry/ we use secret type `kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson`.

Author: no its not important. The operator takes it and extracts fields and use those values as overrides

```

> Than, reference the secret in the serverless CR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Reference the Secret in the Serverless CR
```

> ```yaml

Reviewer: Please add three spaces for the whole code block (lines 43-47)

Author: done

spec:
  dockerRegistry:
    secretName: my-registry-config 
```

> URL of currently used docker registry is visible in the serverless CR status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The URL of the currently used Docker registry is visible in the Serverless CR status.
```

> ## Configure Trace Endpoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure trace endpoint
```

> By default, serverless operator detects if there is an available trace endpoint available by inspecting `TracePieline` CR. If it is available, the detected trace endpoint is used as (trace collector URL) in functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the Serverless operator checks if there is a trace endpoint available by inspecting the `TracePieline` CR. If available, the detected trace endpoint is used as the trace collector URL in Functions.
```

> If no tracePipeline CR is detected functions are configured with no trace collector endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no tracePipeline CR is detected, Functions are configured with no trace collector endpoint.
```

> You can configure custom trace endpoint, so that function traces are sent over to any tracing backend of your choice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure a custom trace endpoint so that Function traces are sent to any tracing backend you choose.
```

> Currently used trace endpoint is visible in the serverless CR status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The currently used trace endpoint is visible in the Serverless CR status.
```

> ```yaml

Reviewer: Please add 3 spaces for the whole code block (lines 58-62)

Author: done

spec:
  tracing:
    endpoint: http://tracing-jaeger-collector.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local:2342/v1/metrics 
```

## Configure Eventing endpoint

> You can configure custom eventing endpoint, so that, when you use SDK for sending events from your functions, it is used to publish events to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure a custom eventing endpoint, so when you use SDK for sending events from your Functions, it is used to publish events.
```

> Currently used trace endpoint is visible in the serverless CR status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The currently used trace endpoint is visible in the Serverless CR status.
```

By default `http://eventing-publisher-proxy.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local/publish` is used.

> ```yaml

Reviewer: Please add three spaces for the whole code block (lines 70-74)

Author: done
